### Preface
At the time this was written, AI is really contentious in the writing space. There are people along a consistently developing spectrum of opinions about using AI in writing, and chasing down the ideal position is likely not a good race to run.

So, the race I'd rather run is choosing to be explicit about my AI use in writing articles, and what I deem to be plagarism versus good-faith use. This is not an attempt to sway anyone, or convince anyone, it's simply putting my thoughts out there: if you respect it, great, if you think rationalizing any AI use in any form is not great, that's okay too.

# AI Use in RXMD

Obviously, AI is not writing articles in full for RXMD. In an ideal space: Claude projects provides a way to compile a lot of text and ask detailed and specific questions about that text. There are limits to projects, especially when information is unreliable. However, it is an efficient way to map and learn about whatever subject matter I'm learning before spending time personally with the material.

My preferred way of absorbing content is to read it directly, and ask questions of the text (a skill I learned from _How to Read a Book_) rather than AI. It forces stronger connections to the material itself, and helps develop that granularity that summaries from AI can't offer.

---

### AI in Claiming Intellectual Competence

For writing specifically, AI is super helpful as an informational companion. It's worth specifying what this entails: AI compresses lookup time for things I already understand well enough to verify. In practice, I could catch mistakes, misframes, or superficiality generated by AI.

To bolden this: If I'm writing about something, then I am responsible for that intellectual work. If I have not engaged with the intellectual work it sits on, then I have not done the necessary groundwork required to borrow it's intellectual content in my own intellectual work. Otherwise, I would be overreaching my own competence.

So, although AI can lower the bar and give the illusion of percieved competence by writing competently about a topic—it does not substitute the real intellectual work required to read/work through it for oneself. We can only claim as far as the latter allows, otherwise we'd be fabricating our competence if we leaned on the former alone.

---

#### AI in Practice, Writing

Per before, AI is super helpful as an informational companion. For instance, if I need to recall details of scientific realism, it's much easier to ask Claude.ai then to go through to the Stanford Enclypedia of Philosophy. It's not as simple as: Claude.ai > SEP. Moreso, because each has their unique contextual fit in the writing process. SEP is absolutely necessary for developing a map of a rich landscape that has developed over the course of centuries, and understanding how that conversation has unfolded. It would be an overreach to think that training data could capture what the author(s) in a field of study can express with texture and granularity.

However, Claude.ai Projects allows you to take the entire SEP and ask questions about that content. This is where the next level of intellectual honesty appears, and where the previous section on _"AI in Claiming Intellectual Competence"_ comes into play. Although the Claude.ai can answer questions about the SEP that exceeds what the training data alone could have generated, it still doesn't give me the intellectual claimant to the work until I have first demonstrated the intellectual groundwork to warrant borrowing that intellectual content.

A traditionalist sentiment might say: "you shouldn't use AI at all, you should engage with the material directly and form independent thoughts." 

I think the traditionalist argument is: you should understand what it is you're writing about, but we're human, and today's world requires nuance and detail that an older world wasn't pressured to provide. The pressure is good. It requires clarity, and working through complex thinking in a way that becomes apparent and readily digestible for others. Many older writers wrote with depth that sometimes obfuscated precision.

### Methodology for AI

The method is always: use AI for thinking support, and detail clarification. Never as a substitute for original thought, or in place of rigor.
